readme.md, before:

# Yeoman.io [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yeoman/yeoman.github.io.svg?branch=source)](https://travis-ci.org/yeoman/yeoman.github.io)

> [Yeoman.io](https://yeoman.io) site


## Attention!

If you have an issue or contribution for the Yeoman.io website, this is the place! If you want to submit an issue about Yeoman's source code or workflow please visit the [yeoman/yeoman repository](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman).


## Contributing

This site is made with [Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/) and [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb).

To get started:

**1\.** Clone the repository and its submodules:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.github.io.git yeoman.io
cd yeoman.io
```

**2\.** Install all modules and needed tools

```bash
npm install
gem install bundler
bundle install
```
**3\.** Start dev server with Grunt

```bash
grunt serve
```

Now you're ready to do some work!


## Yo, Yeoman.io!

The development environment and build system are generated by [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb). For development, build, and deploy instructions see the [usage section in the generator's README](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb/blob/704c2880c298a3e5e40ae29d3dafff112e21c01b/README.md#grunt-workflow).

The site is deployed automatically each time a commit is merged on the `source` branch.


## Notes

- If you're adding a Youtube embed iframe please wrap the iframe in a div with the `.video-container` class in order to keep the site responsive.


## Media

You can find the logo and artwork [here](https://github.com/yeoman/media).


## License

[BSD 2-Clause license](http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)
Copyright (c) Yeoman

Commit message:

Clarify yeoman/yeoman is workflow focused and provide helpful links to yeoman core repos (#808)

readme.md, after:

# Yeoman.io [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yeoman/yeoman.github.io.svg?branch=source)](https://travis-ci.org/yeoman/yeoman.github.io)

> [Yeoman.io](https://yeoman.io) site


## Attention!

If you have an issue or contribution for the Yeoman.io website, this is the place!

If you want to submit an issue or make a contribution for Yeoman's core source code please visit either the [yo command line repository](https://github.com/yeoman/yo), the [yeoman base classes repository](https://github.com/yeoman/generator), or the [yeoman runtime environment repository](https://github.com/yeoman/environment).

For workflow issues or contributions please visit the [yeoman/yeoman repository](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman).


## Contributing

This site is made with [Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/) and [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb).

To get started:

**1\.** Clone the repository and its submodules:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.github.io.git yeoman.io
cd yeoman.io
```

**2\.** Install all modules and needed tools

```bash
npm install
gem install bundler
bundle install
```
**3\.** Start dev server with Grunt

```bash
grunt serve
```

Now you're ready to do some work!


## Yo, Yeoman.io!

The development environment and build system are generated by [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb). For development, build, and deploy instructions see the [usage section in the generator's README](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb/blob/704c2880c298a3e5e40ae29d3dafff112e21c01b/README.md#grunt-workflow).

The site is deployed automatically each time a commit is merged on the `source` branch.


## Notes

- If you're adding a Youtube embed iframe please wrap the iframe in a div with the `.video-container` class in order to keep the site responsive.


## Media

You can find the logo and artwork [here](https://github.com/yeoman/media).


## License

[BSD 2-Clause license](http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)
Copyright (c) Yeoman
