app/codelab/install-packages.md, before:

---
layout: default
markdown: 1
social_text: "Let's Scaffold A Web App With @Yeoman!"
social_url: http://yeoman.io/codelab.html
sidebar: sidebars/codelab.html
---

# Step 7: Use Bower to install packages

<div class="mast-holder">
  <img src="/assets/img/yeoman-005.png">
</div>

Let’s add some order to our list and make it sortable. For this we’re going to use Bower to install the [AngularUI Sortable module](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-sortable), a directive component for AngularJS.

## List current packages

We can check what packages we have already installed with this command:

```sh
$ bower list
```

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_22.png)

You should see that you already have packages for angular-cookies, angular-resources, angular-route, plus others. Remember how we selected these as part of [Step 3](scaffold-app.html#configure) when we configured our generator?

## Search for packages

To verify that there are AngularUI packages available, use Bower to search for "angular-ui-sortable":

```sh
$ bower search angular-ui-sortable
```

There is one result for "angular-ui-sortable" so let’s install it along with [jQuery UI](http://jqueryui.com/) as we already have jQuery installed. To save you from searching, the package name for jQuery UI is "jquery-ui".

<h2 id="install">Install packages</h2>

Use Bower to install both "angular-ui-sortable" and "jquery-ui":

```sh
$ bower install --save angular-ui-sortable
$ bower install --save jquery-ui
```

The `--save` option updates the ***bower.json*** file with dependencies on angular-ui-sortable and jquery-ui. This will save you from having to manually add it to *bower.json* yourself.

<div class="note tip">

  <h2>Install multiple Bower packages at once</h2>

  <p>If you have multiple packages that you want to install, you can do it in one line:</p>

<pre>
$ bower install --save angular-ui-sortable jquery-ui
</pre>

</div>

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_24.png)

## Confirm installation

Take a look at your ***bower_components*** directory just to check that everything is there as expected. You should see folders for "jquery-ui" and "angular-ui-sortable" alongside the previously installed angular packages:

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_25.png)

<h2 id="implement">Make todos sortable</h2>

References to these newly installed dependencies must be added to our *index.html* file. You *could* manually add the AngularUI Sortable module and jQueryUI script files yourself but Yeoman will automate this for you!

Quit your current command line process by using the <span class="keyboard">Ctrl</span>+<span class="keyboard">C</span> keyboard command.

Then run `grunt serve` again.

You'll see that the `script` section at the bottom of *index.html* has automatically updated to include `jquery-ui/ui/jquery-ui.js` and `angular-ui-sortable/sortable.js`:

```html
<!-- build:js scripts/vendor.js -->
<!-- bower:js -->
<script src="bower_components/jquery/dist/jquery.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular/angular.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-resource/angular-resource.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-cookies/angular-cookies.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-sanitize/angular-sanitize.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-animate/angular-animate.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-touch/angular-touch.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-route/angular-route.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/jquery-ui/ui/jquery-ui.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-ui-sortable/sortable.js"></script>
<!-- endbower -->
<!-- endbuild -->
```

In order to use the Sortable module, we must load it into our application by updating our Angular module definitions in *scripts/app.js*. Currently it looks like this:

```js
angular
  .module('mytodoApp', [
    'ngAnimate',
    'ngCookies',
    'ngResource',
    'ngRoute',
    'ngSanitize',
    'ngTouch'
  ])
```

Add the `ui.sortable` dependency to the array list in the second parameter after `'ngTouch'`:

```js
angular
  .module('mytodoApp', [
    'ngAnimate',
    'ngCookies',
    'ngResource',
    'ngRoute',
    'ngSanitize',
    'ngTouch',
    'ui.sortable'
  ])
```

Finally, we need to add the `ui-sortable` directive as a `div` wrapper around our `ng-repeat` in *main.html*:

```html
<!-- Todos list -->
<div ui-sortable ng-model="todos">
  <p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos">
```

Let's also add some inline css in order to show a move cursor so it’s clear that we can move todo items:

```html
<p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos" style="padding:5px 10px; cursor: move;">
```

The full todo list markup looks like this now:

```html
<!-- Todos list -->
<div ui-sortable ng-model="todos">
  <p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos" style="padding:5px 10px; cursor: move;">
    <input type="text" ng-model="todo" class="form-control">
    <span class="input-group-btn">
      <button class="btn btn-danger" ng-click="removeTodo($index)" aria-label="Remove">X</button>
    </span>
  </p>
</div>
```

Back in the browser, we can now re-order our list:

<div class="side-by-side">
  <img src="/assets/img/codelab/image_26.png">
  <img src="/assets/img/codelab/image_27.png">
</div>

Pat yourself on the back! You just used Yeoman to build a snazzy todo app in no time. Can you imagine doing front-end web development in any other way now?

<p class="codelab-paging">
  <a href="../codelab.html#toc">&laquo; Return to overview</a>
  or
  <a href="write-unit-tests.html">Go to the next step &raquo;</a>
</p>

Commit message:

Clarifying where to run the bower list command
Clarifying that we need to run the bower list command from within the myTodo project directory. Otherwise the command will not return what you expect. This is unlike other 'list' commands in that it does not work globally but rather per project.

app/codelab/install-packages.md, after:

---
layout: default
markdown: 1
social_text: "Let's Scaffold A Web App With @Yeoman!"
social_url: http://yeoman.io/codelab.html
sidebar: sidebars/codelab.html
---

# Step 7: Use Bower to install packages

<div class="mast-holder">
  <img src="/assets/img/yeoman-005.png">
</div>

Let’s add some order to our list and make it sortable. For this we’re going to use Bower to install the [AngularUI Sortable module](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-sortable), a directive component for AngularJS.

## List current packages

We can check what packages we have already installed by running this command from within the myTodo project directory created earlier:

```sh
$ bower list
```

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_22.png)

You should see that you already have packages for angular-cookies, angular-resources, angular-route, plus others. Remember how we selected these as part of [Step 3](scaffold-app.html#configure) when we configured our generator?

## Search for packages

To verify that there are AngularUI packages available, use Bower to search for "angular-ui-sortable":

```sh
$ bower search angular-ui-sortable
```

There is one result for "angular-ui-sortable" so let’s install it along with [jQuery UI](http://jqueryui.com/) as we already have jQuery installed. To save you from searching, the package name for jQuery UI is "jquery-ui".

<h2 id="install">Install packages</h2>

Use Bower to install both "angular-ui-sortable" and "jquery-ui":

```sh
$ bower install --save angular-ui-sortable
$ bower install --save jquery-ui
```

The `--save` option updates the ***bower.json*** file with dependencies on angular-ui-sortable and jquery-ui. This will save you from having to manually add it to *bower.json* yourself.

<div class="note tip">

  <h2>Install multiple Bower packages at once</h2>

  <p>If you have multiple packages that you want to install, you can do it in one line:</p>

<pre>
$ bower install --save angular-ui-sortable jquery-ui
</pre>

</div>

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_24.png)

## Confirm installation

Take a look at your ***bower_components*** directory just to check that everything is there as expected. You should see folders for "jquery-ui" and "angular-ui-sortable" alongside the previously installed angular packages:

![](/assets/img/codelab/image_25.png)

<h2 id="implement">Make todos sortable</h2>

References to these newly installed dependencies must be added to our *index.html* file. You *could* manually add the AngularUI Sortable module and jQueryUI script files yourself but Yeoman will automate this for you!

Quit your current command line process by using the <span class="keyboard">Ctrl</span>+<span class="keyboard">C</span> keyboard command.

Then run `grunt serve` again.

You'll see that the `script` section at the bottom of *index.html* has automatically updated to include `jquery-ui/ui/jquery-ui.js` and `angular-ui-sortable/sortable.js`:

```html
<!-- build:js scripts/vendor.js -->
<!-- bower:js -->
<script src="bower_components/jquery/dist/jquery.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular/angular.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-resource/angular-resource.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-cookies/angular-cookies.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-sanitize/angular-sanitize.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-animate/angular-animate.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-touch/angular-touch.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-route/angular-route.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/jquery-ui/ui/jquery-ui.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/angular-ui-sortable/sortable.js"></script>
<!-- endbower -->
<!-- endbuild -->
```

In order to use the Sortable module, we must load it into our application by updating our Angular module definitions in *scripts/app.js*. Currently it looks like this:

```js
angular
  .module('mytodoApp', [
    'ngAnimate',
    'ngCookies',
    'ngResource',
    'ngRoute',
    'ngSanitize',
    'ngTouch'
  ])
```

Add the `ui.sortable` dependency to the array list in the second parameter after `'ngTouch'`:

```js
angular
  .module('mytodoApp', [
    'ngAnimate',
    'ngCookies',
    'ngResource',
    'ngRoute',
    'ngSanitize',
    'ngTouch',
    'ui.sortable'
  ])
```

Finally, we need to add the `ui-sortable` directive as a `div` wrapper around our `ng-repeat` in *main.html*:

```html
<!-- Todos list -->
<div ui-sortable ng-model="todos">
  <p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos">
```

Let's also add some inline css in order to show a move cursor so it’s clear that we can move todo items:

```html
<p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos" style="padding:5px 10px; cursor: move;">
```

The full todo list markup looks like this now:

```html
<!-- Todos list -->
<div ui-sortable ng-model="todos">
  <p class="input-group" ng-repeat="todo in todos" style="padding:5px 10px; cursor: move;">
    <input type="text" ng-model="todo" class="form-control">
    <span class="input-group-btn">
      <button class="btn btn-danger" ng-click="removeTodo($index)" aria-label="Remove">X</button>
    </span>
  </p>
</div>
```

Back in the browser, we can now re-order our list:

<div class="side-by-side">
  <img src="/assets/img/codelab/image_26.png">
  <img src="/assets/img/codelab/image_27.png">
</div>

Pat yourself on the back! You just used Yeoman to build a snazzy todo app in no time. Can you imagine doing front-end web development in any other way now?

<p class="codelab-paging">
  <a href="../codelab.html#toc">&laquo; Return to overview</a>
  or
  <a href="write-unit-tests.html">Go to the next step &raquo;</a>
</p>
