app/_includes/yeoman.wiki/Getting-started-with-1.0.md, before:

# Getting started with Yeoman 1.0 beta

**Keep in mind that this is a beta and will have bugs. Don't use in production.**

The Yeoman workflow is comprised of three core tools for improving your productivity and satisfaction when building a web app. These tools are:

* [yo](https://github.com/yeoman/yo) - the scaffolding tool from Yeoman
* [bower](http://twitter.github.com/bower) - the package management tool
* [grunt](http://gruntjs.com) - the build tool

Each of these projects are independently maintained by their respective communities, but work well together as a part of a prescriptive workflow for keeping you effective. Let’s walk through what these binaries can do.


<p class="toolset">
  <img class="full" src="https://raw.github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/gh-pages/media/workflow.jpg">
</p>

## yo 

Yo is maintained by the Yeoman project and offers web application scaffolding, utilizing scaffolding templates we refer to as generators. You typically install yo and any generators you think you might use via npm.

### Installing yo and some generators

**This beta does not yet work on Windows. We'll be working hard to fix this towards the final release.**

First you’ll need to install some tools (the webapp generator is bundled):

```
npm install -g yo grunt-cli bower
```

If you have installed Grunt globally in the past, you will need to remove it first: `npm uninstall -g grunt`

*Windows instructions at the bottom*

### Basic scaffolding

```
yo webapp
```

This is the default generator and will scaffold out a project containing [HTML5 Boilerplate](http://html5boilerplate.com), [jQuery](http://jquery.com) and [Modernizr](http://modernizr.com). [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap) can be optionally installed from the prompt you will be presented.

Each project created with yo will also pull in relevant Grunt tasks which we feel are needed or useful for your workflow. 

The webapp generator is considered the simplest possible start for a webapp. We also provide some framework generators can be used to scaffold out a project and later views, models, controllers and so on. 

### Scaffolding an AngularJS app

```
yo angular
```

Here, we are first generating the file structure for a basic web application and then writing a number of boilerplate files for a new AngularJS application on top of it. This includes boilerplate directives and controllers as well as scaffolded Testacular unit tests.

### Scaffolding out Angular pieces

```
yo angular:controller myController
yo angular:directive myDirective
yo angular:filter myFilter
```

Yo scaffolds can also be used to scaffold further pieces of your application - we call these sub-generators. 

In the AngularJS framework for example your application is made up of a number of pieces including controllers, directives and filters. You can actually scaffold out any of these pieces (and more) during your development workflow as shown above.

Each framework generator has further documentation available noting what sub-generators it supports.

### Creating your own generators

Link up.

## Bower 

Bower is a package manager for the web which allows you to easily manage dependencies for your projects. This includes assets such as JavaScript, images and CSS. It is maintained by Twitter and the open-source community.

Managing packages using Bower can be done using the following commands:

```
bower search <dep> - search for a dependency in the Bower registry
bower install <dep>..<depN> - install one or more dependencies
bower list - list out the dependencies you have installed for a project
bower update <dep> - update a dependency to the latest version available
```

Bower can be used with a project scaffolded using yo.

### Create a basic webapp, search for a jQuery plugin with Bower and install it

```
yo webapp
bower search jquery-bbq
> BBQ has been found. Let’s install it!
bower install jquery-bbq
> installs jquery, jquery-bbq
```

### Create an AngularJS app, install Angular UI from Bower and build it.

```
yo angular
bower install angular-ui
grunt
```

It’s as simple as that. 

## grunt

Grunt is a task-based command-line tool for JavaScript projects. It can be used to build projects, but also exposes several commands which you will want to use in your workflow. Many of these commands utilize Grunt tasks behind the hood which are maintained by the Yeoman team.

### Grunt commands

```
grunt - build an optimized, production-ready version of your app
grunt server - preview an app you have generated (with Livereload)
grunt test  - run the unit tests for an app
```

These commands can be used together with the yo binary for a seamless development workflow:

#### Create a basic web app, preview it, test, build

```
yo webapp
grunt server
grunt test
grunt
```
---

### I used Yeoman 0.9.x and would like to upgrade to 1.0. What do I do?

We have an [upgrade guide](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/wiki/Migrate-from-0.9.6-to-1.0) to assist with moving your 0.9.x projects over to 1.0. Note that we no longer offer a yeoman binary which wraps both grunt and bower, but instead use a new yo binary for your scaffolding needs. The guide will explain how this workflow applies to upgrading in more detail.


### For those special Windows people
    
- Install [node.js](http://nodejs.org)
- Install tools with npm: `npm install -g yo grunt-cli bower`
- Install [Ruby](http://rubyinstaller.org) and ensure Ruby is added to the path
- Install the Compass gem if you want to use Compass: `gem install compass`

Use an improved command line tool such as Console2 or PowerShell to improve the experience on Windows.

Commit message:

Added tip to ensure that users run npm install && bower install after yo webapp t2

app/_includes/yeoman.wiki/Getting-started-with-1.0.md, after:

# Getting started with Yeoman 1.0 beta

**Keep in mind that this is a beta and will have bugs. Don't use in production.**

The Yeoman workflow is comprised of three core tools for improving your productivity and satisfaction when building a web app. These tools are:

* [yo](https://github.com/yeoman/yo) - the scaffolding tool from Yeoman
* [bower](http://twitter.github.com/bower) - the package management tool
* [grunt](http://gruntjs.com) - the build tool

Each of these projects are independently maintained by their respective communities, but work well together as a part of a prescriptive workflow for keeping you effective. Let’s walk through what these binaries can do.


<p class="toolset">
  <img class="full" src="https://raw.github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/gh-pages/media/workflow.jpg">
</p>

## yo 

Yo is maintained by the Yeoman project and offers web application scaffolding, utilizing scaffolding templates we refer to as generators. You typically install yo and any generators you think you might use via npm.

### Installing yo and some generators

**This beta does not yet work on Windows. We'll be working hard to fix this towards the final release.**

First you’ll need to install some tools (the webapp generator is bundled):

```
npm install -g yo grunt-cli bower
```

If you have installed Grunt globally in the past, you will need to remove it first: `npm uninstall -g grunt`

*Windows instructions at the bottom*

### Basic scaffolding

```
yo webapp
```

This is the default generator and will scaffold out a project containing [HTML5 Boilerplate](http://html5boilerplate.com), [jQuery](http://jquery.com) and [Modernizr](http://modernizr.com). [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap) can be optionally installed from the prompt you will be presented.

Each project created with yo will also pull in relevant Grunt tasks which we feel are needed or useful for your workflow. _Be sure to follow the on-screen directions and type_ `npm install && bower install` _to ensure that both bower and grunt are install locally to your project._

The webapp generator is considered the simplest possible start for a webapp. We also provide some framework generators can be used to scaffold out a project and later views, models, controllers and so on. 

### Scaffolding an AngularJS app

```
yo angular
```

Here, we are first generating the file structure for a basic web application and then writing a number of boilerplate files for a new AngularJS application on top of it. This includes boilerplate directives and controllers as well as scaffolded Testacular unit tests.

### Scaffolding out Angular pieces

```
yo angular:controller myController
yo angular:directive myDirective
yo angular:filter myFilter
```

Yo scaffolds can also be used to scaffold further pieces of your application - we call these sub-generators. 

In the AngularJS framework for example your application is made up of a number of pieces including controllers, directives and filters. You can actually scaffold out any of these pieces (and more) during your development workflow as shown above.

Each framework generator has further documentation available noting what sub-generators it supports.

### Creating your own generators

Link up.

## Bower 

Bower is a package manager for the web which allows you to easily manage dependencies for your projects. This includes assets such as JavaScript, images and CSS. It is maintained by Twitter and the open-source community.

Managing packages using Bower can be done using the following commands:

```
bower search <dep> - search for a dependency in the Bower registry
bower install <dep>..<depN> - install one or more dependencies
bower list - list out the dependencies you have installed for a project
bower update <dep> - update a dependency to the latest version available
```

Bower can be used with a project scaffolded using yo.

### Create a basic webapp, search for a jQuery plugin with Bower and install it

```
yo webapp
bower search jquery-bbq
> BBQ has been found. Let’s install it!
bower install jquery-bbq
> installs jquery, jquery-bbq
```

### Create an AngularJS app, install Angular UI from Bower and build it.

```
yo angular
bower install angular-ui
grunt
```

It’s as simple as that. 

## grunt

Grunt is a task-based command-line tool for JavaScript projects. It can be used to build projects, but also exposes several commands which you will want to use in your workflow. Many of these commands utilize Grunt tasks behind the hood which are maintained by the Yeoman team.

### Grunt commands

```
grunt - build an optimized, production-ready version of your app
grunt server - preview an app you have generated (with Livereload)
grunt test  - run the unit tests for an app
```

These commands can be used together with the yo binary for a seamless development workflow:

#### Create a basic web app, preview it, test, build

```
yo webapp
grunt server
grunt test
grunt
```
---

### I used Yeoman 0.9.x and would like to upgrade to 1.0. What do I do?

We have an [upgrade guide](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/wiki/Migrate-from-0.9.6-to-1.0) to assist with moving your 0.9.x projects over to 1.0. Note that we no longer offer a yeoman binary which wraps both grunt and bower, but instead use a new yo binary for your scaffolding needs. The guide will explain how this workflow applies to upgrading in more detail.


### For those special Windows people
    
- Install [node.js](http://nodejs.org)
- Install tools with npm: `npm install -g yo grunt-cli bower`
- Install [Ruby](http://rubyinstaller.org) and ensure Ruby is added to the path
- Install the Compass gem if you want to use Compass: `gem install compass`

Use an improved command line tool such as Console2 or PowerShell to improve the experience on Windows.
