The Yeoman core team meet each week to discuss what we've been working on and the direction of the project. We've been using Google Docs for our meeting notes over the past year, but are experimenting with using the wiki for this. It improves openness and can be referenced more easily <3

## Wednesday, 22nd Jan

* Simon put together a new blog post on generator cleanups: https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/pull/121 reviews welcome. Part of our effort to increase how frequently the Yeoman blog gets updated. What about the monthly digests? We seem happy to continue posting http://updates.html5rocks.com/2013/12/The-Yeoman-Monthly-Digest-2 etc on H5R. We'll post more focused content on the blog. Things like best practices for generator authorship, how to stay in sync with an upstream generator you've forked etc are topics that may be of interest.
* Status of composable generators: next round of PRs for queue support (grouping) are in review: https://github.com/yeoman/generator/pull/475 Simon is working through some final breaking changes - still one bug left, but should be good to merge after. Does he need help with the docs? Simon says he can write the docs but needs help with the current writing a generator getting started doc. Document quite massive. Let's open an issue and we can figure out how to break it up accordingly. The idea behind the writing your first generator guide was to have something to bridge the older formal docs and a blog post. If we come up with newer API docs, this could move to the blog or be refactored.
* Increasing number of front-end build systems being released. Addy: We'll need to figure out how Yeoman fits in with these solutions over the next year. I see our focus remaining Grunt with us maybe introducing a helper API for Gulp tasks at some point. Should support be delegated to generators until it's clear Gulp etc. are stable enough? https://twitter.com/software_craft/status/425593101647093761. Mat: There may well be an unsolved problem, but I think that the sudden proliferation might actually be because creating build tools is now the cool thing to do. Simon: I don't think we can delegate it that much. The build tools is a core piece shared accross different generators - it must be composable. Hemanth: maybe we should just build our own. Addy: I wonder if the solution ends up being generator-x calls to generator-grunt and generator-gulp depending on your build tool needs. Peter: difficult territory. Simon: yup. basically, we need to codify what user want to do, and make a more standarized API on top of it. Mat: Or you define a common interface. yeoman.build.addImageFile(...); or something. Yeoman knows which build system you use but the individual generators don't. Mat: The build tools work in very different ways, but the things you actually want to achieve are the same. Simon: Yup, so this can be codified in a base API. I wonder though how much effort is worth putting into this before alternative really became broadly used. Addy: I honestly think we should wait and see how the build tool landscape settles over the next few months. Passy: Let's not make a rush towards any of them. Addy: My predication is that Gulp is going to stay/become the number 2 choice and there will be some minor interest in Fez and so on, but not to the degree people will heavily use Yeoman to scaffold it out. Peter: Injecting a new task is difficult not only becasue of the configuration, but because it needs ordering in relation to other tasks. An initd like system comes to mind.
* Angular generator roadmap: https://github.com/yeoman/generator-angular/issues/553. Let's try to shape up ones for Backbone and Ember.
* Backbone release with test scaffold support: https://twitter.com/revathskumar/status/425503260829442049
* Generator roadmaps for other official generator projects? Do we need one for webapp? Yes. Eddie: even if it just says improve testing we should do it.
* Anyone want to implement silent support? https://github.com/yeoman/generator/issues/472 AI: Hemanth would like to put some time against this.
* yeoman.io updates - iconography for 'yo', discussion around site layout. Can we try to get the designer sync'd in on these somehow or will Simon be talking to him separately? 
* Rob has a dogfood PR open. Waiting on some final changes before we merge it in: https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/pull/120 
* AssetGraph updates: Peter - There are a few bugs I know people will hit once it gets a broader usage. Have some experiments on those in the pipeline.
* Rob gave a talk on Yeoman: https://twitter.com/refreshpitt/status/425783792310034433. Video?

## Wednesday, 15th Jan

* Composable generators: Simon started work on bringing [queues](https://github.com/yeoman/generator/pull/468) to the generator system. Next up is priority queues which enable us to run Generators inside a loop with ordered execution of methods. Feedback would be appreciated on the [composability](https://github.com/yeoman/generator/issues/433) discussion thread. AI for the team: Provide feedback to Simon before next week. Right now we look to using the queue name as the namespace in the prototype, but there may be a cleaner solution we can think of. Otherwise, queues are great. We're not passing callbacks down the process anymore. 
* `grunt serve` is the new (grammatically correct) replacement for `grunt server`. Thanks to Eddie for his PRs on most of our generators enabling this and, Sindre for reviewing and merging. Tag/release new versions this week. AI: release new versions and ensure that we update the changelogs. Backbone and Ember generator maintainers can lead new pushes on those projects. The rest of us can help with the other generators.
* Official [generator](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1263) cleanup - can we add references to .yo-rc examples and start to break up tasks?. Simon suggests we should provide these answers as a blog post and will try to put together a draft. We can then create an issue per generator to tackle the tasks that need to be done.
* Addy is working on defining the [roadmap](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1264) for this quarter, how we might help [existing](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1265) projects. How important do we feel the [installers](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1262) are for our beginners? Also need to wrap up RequireJS PR. AI: We think installers will be useful but are low-priority. Perhaps a member of the community would be interested in hacking on this.
* Dynamically selecting the new available port for connection [PR](https://github.com/eddiemonge/grunt-contrib-connect/commit/7bd5022e4b5f53919f0fc94e0501548dd3ef666b) - changes of this landing upstream? AI: Sindre will try to review and merge when time allows. It should work fine for yeoman issue 1170, but livereload in watch needs a note. Eddie feels the PR works well otherwise, but we need to find out if livereload needs to work on the same port.
* Is any more feedback required on the [Gruntfile API](https://github.com/yeoman/generator/issues/432) thread? AI: most of the comments are needed on the common task queue we'd create to be used by generators. The common named 'grunt release', 'grunt serve' etc.
* Documentation [sprint](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1259) plans. How do we want to run this? Dedicated day? Time? In-person? Would be great to knock out some revised docs soon. AI: we'll do it async.
* Site [design refresh](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/issues/113) - per last week we've confirmed a designer is interested thanks to Simon. Can/should we get them in on the meetings or do an introduction? The issue describes a good set of what we're after based on community feedback. Do we want to begin with iterating on some mocks? AI: Simon having beers with them tomorrow and will talk about the refresh. What's the most important thing? We need more of a landing page. Passy likes Addy's idea of an interactive terminal where you can play around with yo. He might prototype that. Eddie: Would like to see a more prominent, updated blog that has lots of activity. Sindre/Addy: agree. Let's make it more active. 
* Roadmaps for our official generators. If time allows it would be great to polish up our plans for Angular, Backbone, Ember, Chrome Apps etc. It would also be great to find a way to better surface the lesser known generators (Gruntfile etc). Are we using these ourselves?
* Find out where we are with [grunt-reduce](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1234) and the asset graph work being done by Peter. He's made some [fantastic](https://twitter.com/assetgraph/status/423394706458832896) progress with AssetGraph + TodoMVC. One command basically does most of what we do with a complete build step. He put together a [generator](https://github.com/Munter/generator-webapp-assetgraph) last month that we should provide feedback on. Woo! Peter joined. Addy: I'd love to talk to you more over the next few weeks about AssetGraph. First, I'd love to collab on a detailed write-up about it to inform developers of the project. Second, we'd love to give the generator(s) you've written a proper lookover and figure out how it can be used in the Yeoman workflow. Peter: The example generator needs a touch up to show an entire flow. Most of it was copied from generator web app a month ago. I need to start writing some proper prose about it as well, so that would be perfect. Simon: Docs for how to run it correctly would be great. Peter: generator should be in a working state. No preprocessors or live reload yet. AI: We'll review in the current state and provide feedback.