app/authoring/dependencies.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Managing dependencies

Once you've run your generators, you'll often want to run npm and Bower installs.

As these tasks are very frequent, Yeoman already abstract them away. We'll also cover how you can launch installation through other tools.

## NPM

You just need to call `generator.npmInstall()` to launch the installation. You can call it anywhere in your code as Yeoman will automatically schedule the task to run once everything else is complete. Yeoman will also ensure the `npm install` command is only run once even if it is called multiple time by multiple generators.

## Bower

You just need to call `generator.bowerInstall()` to launch the installation. You can call it anywhere in your code as Yeoman will automatically schedule the task to run once everything else is complete. Yeoman will also ensure the `bower install` command is only run once even if it is called multiple time by multiple generators.

## Both?

Call `generator.installDependencies()` to run both npm and bower.

## Using other tools

Yeoman provide an abstraction to allow user to `spawn` any CLI commands. This abstraction will normalize to command so it can run seamlessly in Linux, Mac and Windows system.

For example, if you're a PHP afondiacios and wished to run `composer`, you'd write it this way:

```js
yeoman.generators.Base.extend({
  end: function () {
    this.spawnCommand('composer', ['install']);
  }
});
```

Make sure to call the `spawnCommand` method inside the `end` queue. Your user don't want to wait for an installation command to complete.

Commit message:

Review pass through dependencies article

app/authoring/dependencies.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# Managing dependencies

Once you've run your generators, you'll often want to run [npm](http://npmjs.org) and [Bower](http://bower.io) to install any additional dependencies your generators require.

As these tasks are very frequent, Yeoman already abstracts them away. We'll also cover how you can launch installation through other tools.

## NPM

You just need to call `generator.npmInstall()` to run an `npm` installation. You can call it anywhere in your code as Yeoman will automatically schedule the task to run once everything else is complete. Yeoman will also ensure the `npm install` command is only run once even if it is called multiple time by multiple generators.

## Bower

You just need to call `generator.bowerInstall()` to launch the installation. You can call it anywhere in your code as Yeoman will automatically schedule the task to run once everything else is complete. Yeoman will also ensure the `bower install` command is only run once even if it is called multiple time by multiple generators.

## Both?

Call `generator.installDependencies()` to run both npm and bower.

## Using other tools

Yeoman provides an abstraction to allow users to `spawn` any CLI commands. This abstraction will normalize to command so it can run seamlessly in Linux, Mac and Windows system.

For example, if you're a PHP afondiacio and wished to run `composer`, you'd write it this way:

```js
yeoman.generators.Base.extend({
  end: function () {
    this.spawnCommand('composer', ['install']);
  }
});
```

Make sure to call the `spawnCommand` method inside the `end` queue. Your user don't want to wait for an installation command to complete.
