app/authoring/file-system.md, before:

---
layout: documentation
title: Working With The File System
category: authoring
sidebar: sidebars/authoring.html
excerpt: How to interact with the file system in efficient ways
---

## Location contexts and paths

Yeoman file utilities are based on the idea you always have two location contexts on disk. These contexts are folders your generator will most likely read from and write to.

### Destination context

The first context is the _destination context_. The destination is the folder in which Yeoman will be scaffolding a new application. It is your user project folder, it is where you'll write most of the scaffolding.

The destination context is defined as either the current working directory or the closest parent folder containing a `.yo-rc.json` file. The `.yo-rc.json` file defines the root of a Yeoman project. This file allows your user to run commands in subdirectories and have them work on the project. This ensure a consistent behaviour for the end user.

You can **get** the _destination path_ using `generator.destinationRoot()` or by joining a path using `generator.destinationPath('sub/path')`.

```js
// Given destination root is ~/projects
generators.Base.extend({
  paths: function () {
    this.destinationRoot();
    // returns '~/projects'

    this.destinationPath('index.js');
    // returns '~/projects/index.js'
  }
});
```

And you can manually set it using `generator.destinationRoot('new/path')`. But for consistency, you probably shouldn't change the default destination.

### Template context

The template context is the folder in which you store your template files. It is usually the folder from which you'll read and copy.

The template context is defined as `./templates/` by default. You can overwrite this default by using `generator.sourceRoot('new/template/path')`.

You can get the path value using `generator.sourceRoot()` or by joining a path using `generator.templatePath('app/index.js')`.

```js
generators.Base.extend({
  paths: function () {
    this.sourceRoot();
    // returns './templates'

    this.templatePath('index.js');
    // returns './templates/index.js'
  }
});
```

## An "in memory" file system

Yeoman is very careful when it comes to overwriting users files. Basically, every write happening on a pre-existing file will go through a conflict resolution process. This process requires that the user validate every file write that overwrites content to its file.

This behaviour prevents bad surprises and limits the risk of errors. On the other hand, this means every file is written asynchronously to the disk.

As asynchronous APIs are harder to use, Yeoman provide a synchronous file-system API where every files get written to an [in-memory file system](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs) and are only written to disk once when Yeoman is done running.

This memory file system is shared between all [composed generators](/authoring/composability.html).

## File utilities

Generators expose all file methods on `this.fs`, which is an instance of [mem-fs editor](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor) - make sure to check the [module documentation](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor) for all available methods.

It is worth noting that although `this.fs` exposes `commit`, you should not call it in your generator. Yeoman calls this internally after the conflicts stage of the run loop.

### Example: Copying a template file

Here's an example where we'd want to copy and process a template file.

Given the content of `./templates/index.html` is:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title><%= title %></title>
  </head>
</html>
```

We'll then use the [`copyTpl`](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor#copytplfrom-to-context-settings) method to copy the file while processing the content as a template. `copyTpl` is using [ejs template syntax](http://ejs.co).

```js
generators.Base.extend({
  writing: function () {
    this.fs.copyTpl(
      this.templatePath('index.html'),
      this.destinationPath('public/index.html'),
      { title: 'Templating with Yeoman' }
    );
  }
});
```

Once the generator is done running, `public/index.html` will contain:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Templating with Yeoman</title>
  </head>
</html>
```

## Legacy File utilities

Yeoman also expose a set of older file utilities. You can refer to the [API documentation](http://yeoman.github.io/generator/actions.html) to learn more about them.

The legacy file utilities have been back ported to use the in memory file system. As so, they're safe to use. Although be careful, these methods make a lot of assumptions and as a result will produce edge cases. When possible, prefer the more explicit new `fs` API.

The legacy file system make the assumption you want to write to the _destination context_ and you want to read from the _template context_. As so, they don't require you to pass in a complete path, they'll resolve them automatically.

Also, legacy methods like `template` and `copy` will automatically process some templates passing the generator (e.g. `this`) as the data object.

## Tip: Update existing files content

Updating a pre-existing file is not always a simple task. The most reliable way to do so is to parse the file AST ([abstract syntax tree](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree)) and edit it. The main issue with this solution is that editing an AST can be verbose and a bit hard to grasp.

Some popular AST parsers are:

- [Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio) for parsing HTML.
- [Esprima](https://github.com/ariya/esprima) for parsing JavaScript - you might be interested in [AST-Query](https://github.com/SBoudrias/ast-query) which provide a lower level API to edit Esprima syntax tree.
- For JSON files, you can use the native [`JSON` object methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON).

Yeoman also provides some common html file edition helpers. Refer to the [API documentation](http://yeoman.github.io/generator/wiring.html) for the list of available methods.

Parsing code file with RegEx is perilous path, and before choosing to do so, you should read [this CS anthropological answers](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1732348/regex-match-open-tags-except-xhtml-self-contained-tags#answer-1732454) and grasp the flaws of RegEx parsing. If even then you do choose to edit existing files using RegEx rather than AST tree, please be careful and provide complete unit tests. - Please please, don't break your users code.

## Tip: Writing a Gruntfile

Refer to the dedicated [Gruntfile documentation](/authoring/gruntfile.html).

Commit message:

Add documention about yeoman-generator transform streams
Fix #393

app/authoring/file-system.md, after:

---
layout: documentation
title: Working With The File System
category: authoring
sidebar: sidebars/authoring.html
excerpt: How to interact with the file system in efficient ways
---

## Location contexts and paths

Yeoman file utilities are based on the idea you always have two location contexts on disk. These contexts are folders your generator will most likely read from and write to.

### Destination context

The first context is the _destination context_. The destination is the folder in which Yeoman will be scaffolding a new application. It is your user project folder, it is where you'll write most of the scaffolding.

The destination context is defined as either the current working directory or the closest parent folder containing a `.yo-rc.json` file. The `.yo-rc.json` file defines the root of a Yeoman project. This file allows your user to run commands in subdirectories and have them work on the project. This ensure a consistent behaviour for the end user.

You can **get** the _destination path_ using `generator.destinationRoot()` or by joining a path using `generator.destinationPath('sub/path')`.

```js
// Given destination root is ~/projects
generators.Base.extend({
  paths: function () {
    this.destinationRoot();
    // returns '~/projects'

    this.destinationPath('index.js');
    // returns '~/projects/index.js'
  }
});
```

And you can manually set it using `generator.destinationRoot('new/path')`. But for consistency, you probably shouldn't change the default destination.

### Template context

The template context is the folder in which you store your template files. It is usually the folder from which you'll read and copy.

The template context is defined as `./templates/` by default. You can overwrite this default by using `generator.sourceRoot('new/template/path')`.

You can get the path value using `generator.sourceRoot()` or by joining a path using `generator.templatePath('app/index.js')`.

```js
generators.Base.extend({
  paths: function () {
    this.sourceRoot();
    // returns './templates'

    this.templatePath('index.js');
    // returns './templates/index.js'
  }
});
```

## An "in memory" file system

Yeoman is very careful when it comes to overwriting users files. Basically, every write happening on a pre-existing file will go through a conflict resolution process. This process requires that the user validate every file write that overwrites content to its file.

This behaviour prevents bad surprises and limits the risk of errors. On the other hand, this means every file is written asynchronously to the disk.

As asynchronous APIs are harder to use, Yeoman provide a synchronous file-system API where every files get written to an [in-memory file system](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs) and are only written to disk once when Yeoman is done running.

This memory file system is shared between all [composed generators](/authoring/composability.html).

## File utilities

Generators expose all file methods on `this.fs`, which is an instance of [mem-fs editor](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor) - make sure to check the [module documentation](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor) for all available methods.

It is worth noting that although `this.fs` exposes `commit`, you should not call it in your generator. Yeoman calls this internally after the conflicts stage of the run loop.

### Example: Copying a template file

Here's an example where we'd want to copy and process a template file.

Given the content of `./templates/index.html` is:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title><%= title %></title>
  </head>
</html>
```

We'll then use the [`copyTpl`](https://github.com/sboudrias/mem-fs-editor#copytplfrom-to-context-settings) method to copy the file while processing the content as a template. `copyTpl` is using [ejs template syntax](http://ejs.co).

```js
generators.Base.extend({
  writing: function () {
    this.fs.copyTpl(
      this.templatePath('index.html'),
      this.destinationPath('public/index.html'),
      { title: 'Templating with Yeoman' }
    );
  }
});
```

Once the generator is done running, `public/index.html` will contain:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Templating with Yeoman</title>
  </head>
</html>
```

## Transform output files through streams

The generator system allow you to apply custom filters on every file writes. Automatically beautifying files, normalizing whitespace, etc, is totally possible.

Once per Yeoman process, we will write every modified files to disk. This process is passed through a [vinyl](https://github.com/wearefractal/vinyl) object stream (just like [gulp](http://gulpjs.com/)). Any generator author can register a `transformStream` to modify the file path and/or the content.

Registering a new modifier is done through the `registerTransformStream()` method. Here's an example:

```js
var beautify = require('gulp-beautify');
this.registerTransformStream(beautify({indentSize: 2 }));
```

Note that **every file of any type will be passed through this stream**. Make sure any transform stream will passthrough the files it doesn't support. Tools like [gulp-if](https://github.com/robrich/gulp-if) or [gulp-filter](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-filter) will help filter invalid types and pass them through.

You can basically use any _gulp_ plugins with the Yeoman transform stream to process generated files during the writing phase.

## Legacy File utilities

Yeoman also expose a set of older file utilities. You can refer to the [API documentation](http://yeoman.github.io/generator/actions.html) to learn more about them.

The legacy file utilities have been back ported to use the in memory file system. As so, they're safe to use. Although be careful, these methods make a lot of assumptions and as a result will produce edge cases. When possible, prefer the more explicit new `fs` API.

The legacy file system make the assumption you want to write to the _destination context_ and you want to read from the _template context_. As so, they don't require you to pass in a complete path, they'll resolve them automatically.

Also, legacy methods like `template` and `copy` will automatically process some templates passing the generator (e.g. `this`) as the data object.

## Tip: Update existing files content

Updating a pre-existing file is not always a simple task. The most reliable way to do so is to parse the file AST ([abstract syntax tree](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree)) and edit it. The main issue with this solution is that editing an AST can be verbose and a bit hard to grasp.

Some popular AST parsers are:

- [Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio) for parsing HTML.
- [Esprima](https://github.com/ariya/esprima) for parsing JavaScript - you might be interested in [AST-Query](https://github.com/SBoudrias/ast-query) which provide a lower level API to edit Esprima syntax tree.
- For JSON files, you can use the native [`JSON` object methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON).

Yeoman also provides some common html file edition helpers. Refer to the [API documentation](http://yeoman.github.io/generator/wiring.html) for the list of available methods.

Parsing code file with RegEx is perilous path, and before choosing to do so, you should read [this CS anthropological answers](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1732348/regex-match-open-tags-except-xhtml-self-contained-tags#answer-1732454) and grasp the flaws of RegEx parsing. If even then you do choose to edit existing files using RegEx rather than AST tree, please be careful and provide complete unit tests. - Please please, don't break your users code.

## Tip: Writing a Gruntfile

Refer to the dedicated [Gruntfile documentation](/authoring/gruntfile.html).
