app/authoring/testing.md, before:

---
layout: documentation
title: Testing Generators
category: authoring
sidebar: sidebars/authoring.md
excerpt: Yeoman allows, promotes and encourages testing. This is how.
---

Read on to learn more about the testing helpers Yeoman add to ease the pain of unit testing a generator.

The examples below assume you use [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) in BDD mode. The global concept should apply easily to your unit testing framework of choice.

## Organizing your tests

It is important to keep your tests simple and easily editable.

Usually the best way to organize your tests is to separate each generator and sub-generator into its own `describe` block. Then, add a `describe` block for each option your generator accepts. And then, use an `it` block for each assertion (or related assertion).

In code, you should end up with a structure similar to this:

```js
describe('backbone:app', function () {
  it('generates a project with require.js', function () {
      // assert the file exist
      // assert the file uses AMD definition
  });

  it('generates a project with webpack');
});
```

## Test helpers

Yeoman provide test helpers methods. They're contained inside the `yeoman-test` package.

```js
var helpers = require('yeoman-test');
```

You can check [the full helpers API here](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-test).

The most useful method when unit testing a generator is `helpers.run()`. This method will return a [RunContext](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-test/blob/master/lib/run-context.js) instance on which you can call method to setup a directory, mock prompt, mock arguments, etc.

```js
var path = require('path');

it('generate a project', function () {
  // The object returned acts like a promise, so return it to wait until the process is done
  return helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
    .withOptions({ foo: 'bar' })      // Mock options passed in
    .withArguments(['name-x'])        // Mock the arguments
    .withPrompts({ coffee: false })   // Mock the prompt answers
    .withLocalConfig({ lang: 'en' }) // Mock the local config
    .then(function() {
      // assert something about the generator
    });
})
```

Sometimes you may want to construct a test scenario for the generator to run with existing contents in the target directory. In which case, you could invoke `inTmpDir()` with a callback function, like so:

```js
var path = require('path');
var fs = require('fs-extra');

helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    // `dir` is the path to the new temporary directory
    fs.copySync(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir)
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false })
  .then(function () {
    assert.file('common/file.txt');
  });
```

You can also perform asynchronous task in your callback:

```js
var path = require('path');
var fs = require('fs-extra');

helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    var done = this.async(); // `this` is the RunContext object.
    fs.copy(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir, done);
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false });
```

The run Promise will resolve with the directory that the generator was run in. This can be useful if you want to use a temporary directory that the generator was run in:

```js
helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    var done = this.async(); // `this` is the RunContext object.
    fs.copy(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir, done);
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false })
  .then(function (dir) {
    // assert something about the stuff in `dir`
  });
```

If your generator calls `composeWith()`, you may want to mock those dependent generators. Using `#withGenerators()`, pass in array of arrays that use `#createDummyGenerator()` as the first item and a namespace for the mocked generator as a second item:

```js
var deps = [
  [helpers.createDummyGenerator(), 'karma:app']
];
return helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app')).withGenerators(deps);
```

If you hate promises, you can use the `'ready'`, `'error'`, and `'end'` Events emitted:

```js
helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .on('error', function (error) {
    console.log('Oh Noes!', error);
  })
  .on('ready', function (generator) {
    // This is called right before `generator.run()` is called
  })
  .on('end', done);
```


## Assertions helpers

Yeoman extends the [native assert module](https://nodejs.org/api/assert.html) with generator related assertions helpers. You can see the full list of assertions helpers on the [`yeoman-assert` repository](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-assert).

Require the assertion helpers:

```js
var assert = require('yeoman-assert');
```

### Assert files exists

```js
assert.file(['Gruntfile.js', 'app/router.js', 'app/views/main.js']);
```

`assert.noFile()` assert the contrary.

### Assert a file content

```js
assert.fileContent('controllers/user.js', /App\.UserController = Ember\.ObjectController\.extend/);
```

`assert.noFileContent()` assert the contrary.

Commit message:

Testing a generator by importing it as a module (#774)
* Testing a generator by importing it as a module

Added in https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-test/pull/44

* Fix typo + use require.resolve

app/authoring/testing.md, after:

---
layout: documentation
title: Testing Generators
category: authoring
sidebar: sidebars/authoring.md
excerpt: Yeoman allows, promotes and encourages testing. This is how.
---

Read on to learn more about the testing helpers Yeoman add to ease the pain of unit testing a generator.

The examples below assume you use [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) in BDD mode. The global concept should apply easily to your unit testing framework of choice.

## Organizing your tests

It is important to keep your tests simple and easily editable.

Usually the best way to organize your tests is to separate each generator and sub-generator into its own `describe` block. Then, add a `describe` block for each option your generator accepts. And then, use an `it` block for each assertion (or related assertion).

In code, you should end up with a structure similar to this:

```js
describe('backbone:app', function () {
  it('generates a project with require.js', function () {
      // assert the file exist
      // assert the file uses AMD definition
  });

  it('generates a project with webpack');
});
```

## Test helpers

Yeoman provide test helpers methods. They're contained inside the `yeoman-test` package.

```js
var helpers = require('yeoman-test');
```

You can check [the full helpers API here](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-test).

The most useful method when unit testing a generator is `helpers.run()`. This method will return a [RunContext](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-test/blob/master/lib/run-context.js) instance on which you can call method to setup a directory, mock prompt, mock arguments, etc.

```js
var path = require('path');

it('generate a project', function () {
  // The object returned acts like a promise, so return it to wait until the process is done
  return helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
    .withOptions({ foo: 'bar' })      // Mock options passed in
    .withArguments(['name-x'])        // Mock the arguments
    .withPrompts({ coffee: false })   // Mock the prompt answers
    .withLocalConfig({ lang: 'en' }) // Mock the local config
    .then(function() {
      // assert something about the generator
    });
})
```

Sometimes you may want to construct a test scenario for the generator to run with existing contents in the target directory. In which case, you could invoke `inTmpDir()` with a callback function, like so:

```js
var path = require('path');
var fs = require('fs-extra');

helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    // `dir` is the path to the new temporary directory
    fs.copySync(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir)
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false })
  .then(function () {
    assert.file('common/file.txt');
  });
```

You can also perform asynchronous task in your callback:

```js
var path = require('path');
var fs = require('fs-extra');

helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    var done = this.async(); // `this` is the RunContext object.
    fs.copy(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir, done);
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false });
```

The run Promise will resolve with the directory that the generator was run in. This can be useful if you want to use a temporary directory that the generator was run in:

```js
helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .inTmpDir(function (dir) {
    var done = this.async(); // `this` is the RunContext object.
    fs.copy(path.join(__dirname, '../templates/common'), dir, done);
  })
  .withPrompts({ coffee: false })
  .then(function (dir) {
    // assert something about the stuff in `dir`
  });
```

If your generator calls `composeWith()`, you may want to mock those dependent generators. Using `#withGenerators()`, pass in array of arrays that use `#createDummyGenerator()` as the first item and a namespace for the mocked generator as a second item:

```js
var deps = [
  [helpers.createDummyGenerator(), 'karma:app']
];
return helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app')).withGenerators(deps);
```

If you hate promises, you can use the `'ready'`, `'error'`, and `'end'` Events emitted:

```js
helpers.run(path.join(__dirname, '../app'))
  .on('error', function (error) {
    console.log('Oh Noes!', error);
  })
  .on('ready', function (generator) {
    // This is called right before `generator.run()` is called
  })
  .on('end', done);
```

You can also run a generator importing it as a module. This is usefull if the source code of your generator is transpiled.

You will need to provide the following settings to `run`:
- `resolved`: Path to the generator, e.g. `../src/app/index.js`
- `namespace`: Namespace of the generator, e.g. `mygenerator:app`

```js
var MyGenerator = require('../src/app');

helpers.run(MyGenerator, { 
  resolved: require.resolve(__dirname, '../src/app/index.js'),
  namespace: 'mygenerator:app'
});

```


## Assertions helpers

Yeoman extends the [native assert module](https://nodejs.org/api/assert.html) with generator related assertions helpers. You can see the full list of assertions helpers on the [`yeoman-assert` repository](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman-assert).

Require the assertion helpers:

```js
var assert = require('yeoman-assert');
```

### Assert files exists

```js
assert.file(['Gruntfile.js', 'app/router.js', 'app/views/main.js']);
```

`assert.noFile()` assert the contrary.

### Assert a file content

```js
assert.fileContent('controllers/user.js', /App\.UserController = Ember\.ObjectController\.extend/);
```

`assert.noFileContent()` assert the contrary.
