---
layout: single-column
title: Wednesday, 22nd Jan 2014
markdown: 1
---

* Simon put together a new blog post on generator cleanups: https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/pull/121 reviews welcome. Part of our effort to increase how frequently the Yeoman blog gets updated. What about the monthly digests? We seem happy to continue posting http://updates.html5rocks.com/2013/12/The-Yeoman-Monthly-Digest-2 etc on H5R. We'll post more focused content on the blog. Things like best practices for generator authorship, how to stay in sync with an upstream generator you've forked etc are topics that may be of interest.
* Status of composable generators: next round of PRs for queue support (grouping) are in review: https://github.com/yeoman/generator/pull/475 Simon is working through some final breaking changes - still one bug left, but should be good to merge after. Does he need help with the docs? Simon says he can write the docs but needs help with the current writing a generator getting started doc. Document quite massive. Let's open an issue and we can figure out how to break it up accordingly. The idea behind the writing your first generator guide was to have something to bridge the older formal docs and a blog post. If we come up with newer API docs, this could move to the blog or be refactored.
* Increasing number of front-end build systems being released. Addy: We'll need to figure out how Yeoman fits in with these solutions over the next year. I see our focus remaining Grunt with us maybe introducing a helper API for Gulp tasks at some point. Should support be delegated to generators until it's clear Gulp etc. are stable enough? https://twitter.com/software_craft/status/425593101647093761. Mat: There may well be an unsolved problem, but I think that the sudden proliferation might actually be because creating build tools is now the cool thing to do. Simon: I don't think we can delegate it that much. The build tools is a core piece shared accross different generators - it must be composable. Hemanth: maybe we should just build our own. Addy: I wonder if the solution ends up being generator-x calls to generator-grunt and generator-gulp depending on your build tool needs. Peter: difficult territory. Simon: yup. basically, we need to codify what user want to do, and make a more standarized API on top of it. Mat: Or you define a common interface. yeoman.build.addImageFile(...); or something. Yeoman knows which build system you use but the individual generators don't. Mat: The build tools work in very different ways, but the things you actually want to achieve are the same. Simon: Yup, so this can be codified in a base API. I wonder though how much effort is worth putting into this before alternative really became broadly used. Addy: I honestly think we should wait and see how the build tool landscape settles over the next few months. Passy: Let's not make a rush towards any of them. Addy: My predication is that Gulp is going to stay/become the number 2 choice and there will be some minor interest in Fez and so on, but not to the degree people will heavily use Yeoman to scaffold it out. Peter: Injecting a new task is difficult not only becasue of the configuration, but because it needs ordering in relation to other tasks. An initd like system comes to mind.
* Angular generator roadmap: https://github.com/yeoman/generator-angular/issues/553. Let's try to shape up ones for Backbone and Ember.
* Backbone release with test scaffold support: https://twitter.com/revathskumar/status/425503260829442049
* Generator roadmaps for other official generator projects? Do we need one for webapp? Yes. Eddie: even if it just says improve testing we should do it.
* Anyone want to implement silent support? https://github.com/yeoman/generator/issues/472 AI: Hemanth would like to put some time against this.
* yeoman.io updates - iconography for 'yo', discussion around site layout. Can we try to get the designer sync'd in on these somehow or will Simon be talking to him separately? We'll create a new hangout that is design centric around the site.
* Rob has a dogfood PR open. Waiting on some final changes before we merge it in: https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/pull/120
* AssetGraph updates: Peter - There are a few bugs I know people will hit once it gets a broader usage. Have some experiments on those in the pipeline. We now have permission from One.com to move the project over into its own org. We're getting design resources to create an identity for assetgraph.org. Feature wise, ng-min and autoprefixer were added. Looking into cleaning code and fixing some bugs with requirejs config in nested files.
* Rob gave a talk on Yeoman: https://twitter.com/refreshpitt/status/425783792310034433. Video?
* Addy: Side note: in tooling discussions I have with other folks, the need for a Yeoman/Grunt/build GUI keeps coming up. CodeKit and the others don't quite handle this problem well yet. I know of the 2-3 efforts to build a Grunt GUI but nothing concrete has been released yet and I don't feel our team have bandwidth to work on a Yeoman one right now or in the next 6 months. Peter: IF we can remove lots of config (crossing fingers for grunt-reduce) that gui should be easier. Addy: .I could use us putting together a small node-webkit wrapper around something like that, at least for the build process side of things.
* Revath: in backbone should we remove coffee related grunt tasks when the user didn't use --coffee option?. Addy: I think that if the path you've chosen is JS only and you haven't said you'd like to opt for anything Coffee related, we should definitely be removing coffee related tasks. Revath: I think we already received a PR on it. will check and do the needfulÂ 
